# *2021 GENERAL ELECTION HONDURAS*
> Honduras has just completed its 2021 General Election. This campaign has been a pivotal, nation-defining moment in its history. As it has attempted to recover from the 2009 military coup d'teat of Pink Tide President Manuel Zelaya, and a devastating austerity regime implemented by the ruling conservative *Partido Nacional* that has further crippled the nation's economy as it attempts to fight perenially high crime rates admist the War on Drugs, a number of new political players have emerged as fighters on the national scene. Former President Zelaya's wife, Former First Lady Xiomara Castro, won the nomination of the *Libre*, a new offshoot party with roots in Bolivarianism and an alignment with the São Paulo Forum and distinctly Chavista principles. Additionally, the populist, anti-corruption *Partido Salvador* nominated its founder, Sr. Salvador Nasralla, who, in the polls, looked like a legitimate contender before dropping out of the race at the last minute to assume the role of Sra. Castro's running mate admist an electoral deal. Finally, the ruling *Partido Nacional* nominated Tegulcigalpa Mayor Nasry Asfura as its candidate, who broadly ran on continuity of the prior Administration. The polls going into Election Night showed a narrow lead for *Libre* — but also a large number of undecided voters, and as the electorate weighed their choices of a return to the Pink Tide — a continuation of the status quo — and the centrist *Partido Liberal*, the winner remained shrouded in contest.
<iframe title="" aria-label="Table" id="datawrapper-chart-7bTxt" src="https://datawrapper.dwcdn.net/7bTxt/1/" scrolling="no" frameborder="0" style="width: 0; min-width: 100% !important; border: none;" height="256"></iframe><script type="text/javascript">!function(){"use strict";window.addEventListener("message",(function(e){if(void 0!==e.data["datawrapper-height"]){var t=document.querySelectorAll("iframe");for(var a in e.data["datawrapper-height"])for(var r=0;r<t.length;r++){if(t[r].contentWindow===e.source)t[r].style.height=e.data["datawrapper-height"][a]+"px"}}}))}();
</script>
<iframe title="" aria-label="Map" id="datawrapper-chart-xCIo5" src="https://datawrapper.dwcdn.net/xCIo5/5/" scrolling="no" frameborder="0" style="width: 0; min-width: 100% !important; border: none;" height="476"></iframe><script type="text/javascript">!function(){"use strict";window.addEventListener("message",(function(e){if(void 0!==e.data["datawrapper-height"]){var t=document.querySelectorAll("iframe");for(var a in e.data["datawrapper-height"])for(var r=0;r<t.length;r++){if(t[r].contentWindow===e.source)t[r].style.height=e.data["datawrapper-height"][a]+"px"}}}))}();
</script>
> With results in as of the first week of December, it is evident that Sra. Castro has easily outperformed expectations given standing in the national polls and has secured a durable mandate with a simple majority of votes cast. Her victory was a culmination of a decade of resentment towards austerity, resentment towards the United States as a result of the War on Drugs, and resentment towards *Partido Liberal*, which lost any semblence of credibility as the party of the Pink Tide when Sr. Zelaya joined *Libre*, and whose candidate, Sr. Rosenthal, led the Party to its most humiliating electoral defeat in decades, not even breaking double digits. Sra. Castro additionally won over the support of Sr. Nasralla's anti-corruption movement by selecting him as her running mate, and they gave her their votes in droves, which made all the difference in many of Honduras' most poor and rural constituencies.
